Welcome back!
In this exercise, we are going to apply
some fault tolerance policies
to an example application.
Starting with lab
tolerance-policies start,
which populates our source code
and create directory called
DO378/labs/tolerance-policies/istio-tutorial.
That's where the code is
coming from, an example code.
There are 2 scripts here,
parallel and sequential, which
we will use during testing.
Parallel just sends a number
of parallel requests to
the service that we are running and
sequential keeps doing one by one
in sequence.
The application we will be testing
is called recommendation.
And if we have a look at it,
there's just 1 file
RecommendationResource
there. Now looking at the
endpoints in that source code file,
we see that there is a getRecommendations function or
method which returns the
recommended number, something.
There are also behavior altering
endpoints here, such as reset,
which clears All Flags, misbehave,
which causes the application to misbehave
between or flip between 200 and 503.
There is a timeout endpoint which
causes 1 second delay on 50%
of the requests or responses.
And there is a crash which causes
50 percent of responses to
throw an exception, right!
So let's start the application.
First,
we are going to add this smallrye-
fault-tolerance extension to the project.
Then we are going to start the application
without any additional fault
tolerance implemented.
So as it starts, reporting
listening on port 8080,
we can start by turning on the crash mode.
So using the parallel script,
we will send 10 concurrent
requests to localhost 8080.
And we can see that in some
cases we get a nice response.
In some cases we just get unhandled
exception called RuntimeException,
reporting a Resource failure and
it will just randomly crash,
as we said about 50 percent of the time.
In some cases it will
still return a value,
but about half the time it won't.
I tried to fix this in the code.
So opening the RecommendationResource.
java, what we will do is, we will add a Retry.
So we need to add an import for
the Retry annotation and simply
annotate getRecommendations method with
the maximum number of retries of 10.
If we retry that,
this will cause a reload,
so we have to retoggle the
crash mode back to true.
If we try to rerun the application,
we see that now 10 out of 10 times,
we get a nice response.
Let's reset the behavior and go back
to our regularly scheduled program.
We now have a working
more or less application,
but it still has a condition.
In concurrent invocations,
it will repeat the same result
or it will return the same
recommendation multiple times,
which is not what it was designed to do.
So we need to prevent that if we
send a 100 parallel requests here,
we see that many of them
are multiple responses.
The 90 was actually even returned 22 times
in my case, in your case,
these numbers will be different.
You might not even have such
a large number of responses,
but anything above one,
which we explicitly filter out
in this regular expression,
anything but 1 is incorrect behaviour.
So if we return back and try to fix this,
let's open the RecommendationResource.java and add,
in addition, just replace the Retry.
Actually simply add the
Bulkhead annotation,
setting it to a maximum of
1 invocation at a time.
Looking at the behavior,
after resetting any flags,
we can see that now if we
invoke a 100 parallel sessions,
we do not get any duplicates.
However, we do get a lot of
Internal Server Errors because concurrent
requests are rejected from bulkhead.
We did not configure any
queue for pending requests,
so we fixed 1 problem but introduced
another 1 at the same time.
So we now have an application that can
resolve exactly 1 request at a time and
will fail any other requests that
arise while it's working on it.
Let's try to fix that.
Let's open the RecommendationResource
once more.
And in addition to the
Bulkhead annotation,
add the Fallback as well.
We will be configuring the fallbackMethod
as getFallbackRecommendations.
The annotation goes on to get
recommendations methods, so
the one we are invoking in the getfallbackRecommendations
was already here.
We just weren't using it before because
there was no @Fallback annotation.
So let's see how everything behaves now.
Sending a reset request,
if we invoke the parallel script
with a 100 parallel clients,
we see that each and every
one of those is serviced.
But some of them are reporting
a fallback response,
which means that they would have otherwise
failed because they would
exceed the bulkhead capacity.
But now at least they return,
some sort of a cached
response or something.
If we try and have a look
at the concurrency issues,
so by resetting the state and
running parallel the script again,
sorting the responses and
looking for any duplicates,
we see normal duplicate responses exist.
Right!
Let's remove the Bulkhead
annotation from our code,
so opening the RecommendationResource and
removing the import in
the @Bulkhead annotation.
Let's go back to revisit another problem.
Resetting the state of the application
and turning on timeout will
get about 50 percent of requests
that take longer than a second.
We can see here that 7, 8, 9,
these first couple of requests
were returned really quickly,
whereas these took more
than 1 second to fulfill.
We can fairly easily
save that by reopening
the RecommendationResource
file and adding
the Timeout annotation in
addition to the Fallback,
so leaving the fallback in, let's set
the Timeout to an acceptable
value, let's say half a second.
And after resetting the state
of the application and
turning on timeouts again,
if we have a look at the output of
the parallel script with 10 clients,
we see that there's still
about 50 percent of the requests
that finishes really quickly.
But then we had about 3 of them that
took more than slightly more than half a second
but then resorted to a fallback response.
Right! So let us remove
the Timeout annotation and the import as
well and have a look at last problem,
resetting the state of the
service and turning on
50 percent crashes and
50 percent timeouts.
If you run a sequential script,
which will just run until we stop it,
you see that every now and then,
we do get a fallback response
which is there due to a timeout.
But these fallback responses
which all take more than a second,
they are all spread out
through the response list.
And each, and every time when
we get a fallback response,
it takes 1 second for the
request to be fulfilled.
So we are wasting a lot of
time by simply waiting
until a fallback happens and
it never happens any quicker.
So let's improve this.
Let's improve sub-sequence fallback
responses to take less time by
introducing circuit breaker.
So editing the recommendation
resource once more,
we will be adding the
CircuitBreaker annotation
to the getRecommendations method,
saying that 40 percent out
of 5 consecutive requests
may fail before we open the circuit
and stop using the backend service.
Looking at the behavior again now,
resetting the state, turning
on, crashing and timeouts,
we can see that a first couple
requests finish really quickly.
Then we have 2 fallback
responses which take 1 second.
But 2 is 40% of 5,
which means right now, we have
broken the circuit open and
no other requests actually have
to wait for the timeout to occur.
They just simply stop
invoking the main method
and just simply always
resort to the fallback one, right!
We have resolved the number of fault
tolerance issues in this exercise.
Let's just clean up and stop
Quarkus instance by running lab
tolerance-policies finish script.
Then join us in the next section
where we are going to look at how
to implement health checks in OpenShift.
See you there.